{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12420\viewh8060\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 First download and install MIAP: http://www.zacharyseldess.com/miap/\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Simple instructions to be used with the provided ableton file. Test this first to get a brief understanding of what is going on before going further.\
\
MAKE SURE YOU HAVE MIDI CHANNEL \
\
1) Open MIDI MIAP.maxproj and from the project window open MIDI MIAP.maxpat if not automatically opened.\
\
2) Open ABLETON PRESET FOR MIAP AND SOLENOID TRIGGER.als\
\
3) In ableton, start recording a new empty midiclip to the MIAP IN track. \
\
4) Go back to MIDI MIAP max patch and pan the sound in the map, between the points with the cursor. \
\
4) Go back to Ableton, stop the recording and move the midi clip to the MIAP OUT midi track.\
\
5) From the recorded midi clip, look at the envelopes that were just created. Select the desired start and end point for the pan and loop it.\
\
6) Play the clip and enjoy the effect.\
\
---------\
\
ADVANCED INSTRUCTIONS\
\
1) Create MIAP IN midi track into Ableton:\
The MIDI MIAP max patch uses midi device channel 5 to send the X and Y coordinates to Ableton. In ableton, open a new midi track, and disable any midi output. Then select midi input from Max1 and channel 5.\
\
2) Create MIAP OUT midi track into Ableton:\
The MIDI MIAP max patch uses midi device channel 5 to receive the X and Y coordinates to Ableton. In ableton, open a new midi track, and disable any midi input. Then select midi output to Max1 and channel 5.\
\
3) Create an audio track, name it AUDIO.\
\
4) Create an empty send.\
\
5) Create any number of audio tracks between 1 and 24. These are going to be your physical outputs from your sound card, so define the outputs of each track in chronological order. Group these tracks and name the group Output... select all the tracks in the group and choose the input for these tracks to be the empty send you created before.\
\
6) You will need to map the track volume slider of each track in the Output group. To help this process, use the AUTO MAP ON OFF toggle button in the MIDI MIAP max patch. This will go through all of the 1 to 24 outputs in chronological order, and "move each fader a little" every three seconds. This is a bit tricky, but is still the easy way to map everything. Lets begin\
		\
--> Press cmd + m in ableton and have your OUTPUT group open, so you see all the tracks. Click the first track in the group. \
		\
--> Press the AUTO MAP toggle in the MIDI MIAP patch. Go quickly to Ableton and you will see that the slider got mapped. Quickly press the next volume slider and wait for it to be mapped. Do this for all the tracks, and once you are done, click somewhere else in Ableton, so that the next "map message" doesn't mess up your important mappings. \
\
--> Go quickly to the MIDI MIAP patch and turn the AUTO MAP Toggle button off. Go to Ableton and press cmd + m again to get out from the midi mapping state.\
\
7) Now you are done! Play any sounds into the send channel. And go to the MIDI MIAP patch. Move the point in the map A, and the sound should pan to the corresponding output. You can record the trajectory into the MIAP IN midi track and play it back in the MIAP OUT midi track.\
\
8) Enjoy and explore!\
\
Eero Nieminen\
eero.a.nieminen@gmail.com\
\
\
How to create maps:\
\
1) Download and install Cuestation software from meyersound.com (you have to create an account).\
2) Once installed, change the name of "Cuestation" into "SpaceMap"... \
3) To learn how to create maps, check Meyer Sound Dimitri tutorials for Spacemap.\
4) Once you have saved and named your map, use Spacemap 2 Json.maxpat to change the dimitriproject into a json file, which the MIAP object understands. The map you created will be in the "parsed maps" folder.\
5) Move your map to /Max 7/Packages/MIAP_for_Max/misc/json_maps/ so you can open it from the "map menu" straight from the patch!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}